feat(guides): Update testing documentation (#30)
superfaceai/docs: docs/guides/test-capability.md

});
```

### Recording traffic

If you don't want to hit providers API all the time, you can set up recording with `nock` and use mocked responses in development.

There are four modes of `nock.back` recording support and playback, you can read more about them [here](https://github.com/nock/nock#modes). You can also use `nock.recorder.rec()` and `nock.recorder.play()` and handle recordings yourself (more about `rec` and `play` [here](https://github.com/nock/nock#recording)).

```javascript title="profile.provider.test.js" {1,9-10,18,24}
const nockBack = require('nock').back;

describe('scope/profile-name/provider', () => {
  let sdk, profile, provider;

  beforeAll(async () => {
    // ...

    nockBack.fixtures = '/path/to/fixtures/';
    nockBack.setMode('record');
  });

  it('should return a result when called with ...', async () => {
    const input = {
      // ...
    };

    const { nockDone } = await back('your-recording.json');

    const result = await profile
      .getUseCase('UseCaseName')
      .perform(input, { provider });

    nockDone();

    expect(result.isOk()).toBe(true);
    expect(result.unwrap()).toEqual({
      result: 'test',
    });
  });
});
```

> ## Test the provider map with Superface testing library {#writing-tests-lib}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use Superface testing library {#testing-lib}
```

Reviewer: Other than that... I am lost. I understand that the testing lib is super convenient and does a recording for me etc. But I would like a quick intro what it does and what it needs.

# Test Capability

## Setup

> This guide assumes you have a project set up with Superface installed. If you need to set up a new project, please reference the [Setup Guide](./setup-the-environment.md).

Reviewer: Consider moving this paragraph into Prerequisites.

```suggestion
This guide assumes you have a project set up with Superface installed. If you need to set up a new project, please refer to the [Setup Guide](./setup-the-environment.md).
```

### Prerequisites

- Existing profile
- Existing [provider definition](./add-new-provider.md)
- Existing [map between profile & the provider](./map-capability-to-provider.md)
- [Superface CLI](/reference/cli) installed

> - [Superface OneSDK](/reference/one-sdk-js) installed

Reviewer: This is covered by Setup.

> ## Configure existing profile and map {#configure-profile-map}

Reviewer: So I think this section is redundant because if you have followed the guide, you have the profile and the provider setup. Maybe you should mention in the Prerequisites that the Profile and the Map must be local. This information could be perhaps useful in the troubleshooting section at the end of the page.

Author: I would also rather not document it here in this guide and let guide about super.json handle this.

To run and test your capabilities, you have to have configured profile and map in `super.json`.

### Configuring profile {#configure-profile}

To configure local profile, within your `super.json`, you have to add object representation of profile inside `profiles`, it's key have to be profile id matching id inside referenced file and value is object containing file path and providers.

```json title="superface/super.json" {3-7}
{
  "profiles": {
    "<profile-id>": {
      "file": "./profiles/my-profile.supr",
      "providers": {
        // ...
      }
    }
  },
  "providers": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

### Configuring map {#configure-profile}

To configure local map, you have to add object representation of map with file path similar to profile specification.

```json title="superface/super.json" {6-8}
{
  "profiles": {
    "<profile-id>": {
      "file": "./profiles/my-profile.supr",
      "providers": {
        "<provider-id>": {
          "file": "./maps/my-map.suma"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "providers": {
    // ...
  }
}
```

:::info

To know more about profiles, maps and their configurations in `super.json`, check out our documentation about **[Comlink](/comlink)**

> :::

Reviewer: Comlink reference doesn't talk about super.json, I think this is not covered by docs yet?

Author: I think Lukáš is working on it, should I hide it for now?

Reviewer: Agreed :+1:

## Test the provider map

Out of profile, provider definition, and map, only the map contains logic which should be automatically tested. This document describes the process of testing the map using Jest and Nock libraries. Additionally these tests can be used as continuous integration tests against the provider's sandbox or live servers.

You can use OneSDK in your tests to perform the use cases through the provider's map. You need to explicitly set the provider to make sure that the correct map is being tested.

> :::info SuperJson

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info super.json
```

To know more about profiles, maps and their configurations in `super.json`, check out our documentation about **[Comlink](/comlink)**

:::

### Setting up testing enviroment

Install necessary packages into your project:

```shell

> npm install --save-dev jest

Reviewer: I think this should include also Nock since I don't think we have explicit recommendation on installing that.

Author: true 👍🏻

});
```

:::caution
This test example will hit live APIs.

If your capabilities require authorization, you can load keys from enviroment variables as described in [Run Capability](./run-capability#set-environment-variables)

If you want to reduce amount of calls to live APIs, see section about [recording traffic](#recording-traffic).
:::

### Asserting results

> Usually we want to assert result coming from our map. Result from perform always returns a `Result` type that is either `Ok` or `Err`. This follows the [neverthrow](https://github.com/supermacro/neverthrow) approach.

Reviewer: Just a sidenote, this is superuseful information which should be covered somewhere else in the docs. Maybe it's already in OneSDK docs though. Keep it here for now.

Author: OneSDK readme contains this partially on Github.

We can use methods `isOk()` and `isErr()` to narrow down the result to either `result.value` or `result.error` properties which we can then test.

Or we can use method `unwrap()`, which is less safe because it can throw an error.

```javascript title="profile.provider.test.js" {21-24}
const { SuperfaceClient } = require('@superfaceai/one-sdk');

describe('scope/profile-name/provider', () => {
  let sdk, profile, provider;

  beforeAll(async () => {
    sdk = new SuperfaceClient();
    profile = await sdk.getProfile('scope/profile-name');
    provider = await sdk.getProvider('provider');
  });

  it('should return a result when called with ...', async () => {
    const input = {
      // ...
    };
    const result = await profile
      .getUseCase('UseCaseName')
      .perform(input, { provider });

    expect(result.isOk()).toBe(true);
    expect(result.unwrap()).toEqual({
      result: 'test',
    });
  });
});
```

:::caution
If `result.isErr()` is true and you call `result.unwrap()`, it will throw an error.

> For this situation, we recommend using assertions similar to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this situation you can use the [`toThrow` matcher](https://jestjs.io/docs/expect#tothrowerror):
```

```javascript
expect(result.isErr()).toBe(true);
expect(() => {
  result.unwrap();
}).toThrow();
```

:::

### Using Jest snapshots

> You can also use jest snapshots for asserting result to automate capturing of results:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [Jest snapshots](https://jestjs.io/docs/snapshot-testing) to automatically capture the result:
```

```javascript title="profile.provider.test.js" {21-22}
const { SuperfaceClient } = require('@superfaceai/one-sdk');

describe('scope/profile-name/provider', () => {
  let sdk, profile, provider;

  beforeAll(async () => {
    sdk = new SuperfaceClient();
    profile = await sdk.getProfile('scope/profile-name');
    provider = await sdk.getProvider('provider');
  });

  it('should return a result when called with ...', async () => {
    const input = {
      // ...
    };
    const result = await profile
      .getUseCase('UseCaseName')
      .perform(input, { provider });

    expect(result.isOk()).toBe(true);
    expect(result.unwrap()).toMatchSnapshot();
  });
});
```

:::caution
If `result.isErr()` is true, `result.unwrap()` will throw an error.

> To capture snapshot of error, you can use jest matcher `toThrowErrorMatchingSnapshot()`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To capture snapshot of error, you can use [`toThrowErrorMatchingSnapshot` matcher](https://jestjs.io/docs/expect#tothrowerrormatchingsnapshothint):
```

```javascript
expect(result.isErr()).toBe(true);
expect(() => {
  result.unwrap();
}).toThrowErrorMatchingSnapshot();
```

> More about this matcher [here](https://jestjs.io/docs/expect#tothrowerrormatchingsnapshothint).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:::

<!--
Commented out for now, will investigate more about error format.

:::caution
Be aware that `result.error` might contain timestamp and you have to omit it before storing snapshot of it.
::: -->

### Recording traffic

> If you don't want to hit providers API all the time, you can set up recording with [`nock`](https://github.com/nock) and use mocked responses in development.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don't want to hit providers API upon each test run you can set up recording with [`nock`](https://github.com/nock) and use prerecorded responses during development.
```

### Setting up test configuration file {#set-test-configuration-file}

To be added -->

## Running tests

> When your tests are ready, you can run them with Jest CLI tool:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When your tests are ready run them with Jest CLI:
```

```shel
npx jest
```

> You can use `--updateSnapshot` flag when modifying tests or when the expected results change. See also [jest documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/cli) for further CLI options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use `--updateSnapshot` flag when modifying tests or when the expected results change. See [Jest documentation](https://jestjs.io/docs/cli) for further CLI options.
```
